---
title: Beloved Daughter, Sister, Aunt and Friend
date: 2007-06-15
author: John Wodynski
menu: eulogies
cover_image: /images/Tanja and Naty at Anica's wedding 557876867-header.jpg
---

Undoubtedly, Tanja's greatest love was her family and friends, of whom she was
fiercely protective. She was a precious daughter to Snezana and Momcilo, dear
sister to Natasha and Milan. She was madly in love with Milan and Ana's
children, her young niece and nephew Elena and Ivo, whom she showered with
gifts and affection.

Tanja's kindness touched many; her friendship embraced a fortunate few. Her
brilliance was matched only by her strength as an individual, for she would
prefer to stand alone with faith in her convictions than to join the crowd who
wanders without questioning why they wander or if their path leads logically
to a greater good. Tanja was an extraordinary human being. Her rare
combination of selflessness, empathy and thoughtfulness were manifest to all
who knew her. She never forgot a birthday or anniversary, never arrived at
your home without a gift and never failed to truly listen when you spoke to
her.

She was a warm and loving member of the Serbian-American community, especially
of her family's church, St. Simeon Mirotocivi, located on the southeast side
of Chicago.

Tanja completed her undergraduate studies at Indiana University in 1993,
majoring in Biology and Chemistry. She graduated from UIC in 2004 with a
Masters in Physiology. She won the university's Provost Award in 2003.

She was a woman of unusually high intelligence who was a driven student and
scientific researcher. The pursuit of knowledge and learning was her temple.
Her many passions included books, art, architecture, and chess. While many
knew Tanja as an intellectual and serious academic, she was also famous for
her sense of humor that captivated the heart and soul.

As much as Tanja was a cerebral person, she was an equally physical person.
She was incredibly strong and active. She was a tennis and volleyball
enthusiast, and a personal trainer.

Tanja was a lifelong Chicago resident, but had relocated to New Jersey where
she worked as a medical scientist for Bristol-Myers Squibb. She ultimately
succumbed to meningitis which she had contracted and successfully fought three
times before.

She will be remembered and loved for her incredible spirit and vast capacity
to love.

### Wake service

  * Sun, June 17, 7:30p.m.
  * Elmwood Chapel, 11200 Ewing Ave. Chicago

### Funeral

  * Mon, June 18, 9:00 a.m.
  * St. Simeon Mirotocivi, 3737 E. 114th St., Chicago

