
---
title: Excerpt from Fulbright Grant Application (2004)
menu: writings
cover_image: images/tanja_writing-header.jpg
author: Tanja Andric
date: 2007-06-16
---

My brother, sister and I were raised in our early years on the south side of
Chicago. We spent much of our time outdoors, visiting friends and going to
church. Our upbringing was simple and modest. We were raised in a neighborhood
that was rich with people of different races, colors, and religions. There was
never enough time to play and explore nature. I remember vividly loving life
very much as a child. Dad was a soccer player who later went on to become an
engineer. My earliest memory was playing catch outside with my dad. In second
grade, I was placed in a special enrichment class for gifted children. A friend
and I were programming in basic when it first emerged in third and fourth
grade. In high school, I was also a member of the speech team for
extemporaneous and special occasion speaking. I also spent ten years dancing in
a Serbian Folklore Dance Group with my church. Sports were always natural for
me. Swimming, running, biking, volleyball, and soccer have always been a real
indulgence. One of my dreams is to attend either the summer or winter Olympics
because I have such a reverence for the spirit of sport.

In 1994, I completed a bachelor of science in biology with a minor in history
at Indiana University in Bloomington, Indiana. Following a series of bouts with
meningits, I was fortunately able to complete a bachelor of arts in chemistry
as well in 2001 from Indiana University. After graduation from college, I began
to travel. In 1994, my sister and I traveled from Moscow to parts of Europe for
nearly 12 weeks. We visited Greece, Yugoslavia, Czech Republic, Italy, and
France. We also spent a few days in London, England. I really love traveling.
In particular, I enjoyed Paris and Poquerolle (a small island off the southern
coast of France.) My sister and I also visited Amboise, where Leonardo da Vinci
was buried.

Despite my love for travel, it is always nice to be home in the United States.
In July of this year I visited Manzanita, a small town on the Oregon coastline.
A friend of mine was married there by a lighthouse at dusk. The natural beauty
of Oregon and some of the other protected national parks around the country
make me feel very proud to be a citizen of this beautiful, glorious country.

My friends and family are my assets. I have friends from all over the world. It
brings me great pleasure to learn about other cultures and the history of other
nations. It is my belief that this knowledge and bridge between cultures can
help facilitate strong bonds between people that can eventually lead to world
peace.

Study in the basic and applied sciences has furthered my knowledge and peaked
my own natural curiosity. In the summer of 2004, I completed a masterâ€™s of
science degree in physiology and biophysics at the University of Illinois at
Chicago. My aspirations lie in scientific research. I would like to advance my
knowledge of basic mammalian physiology. It is my belief that through the
advancement of science and through scientific inquiry we can better address
biomedical problems that at present remain unsolvable. Eventually, I also hope
to provide funding for the arts, namely music, dance, and the visual arts. In
my entire life I cannot remember a day when I felt there were enough hours in a
day to live, learn and experience everything wonderful that life has to offer.

